README.md, before:

# Duroxide PostgreSQL Provider

A PostgreSQL-based provider implementation for [Duroxide](https://github.com/affandar/duroxide), a durable task orchestration framework for Rust.

> **Note:** See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for version history and breaking changes.

## Installation

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
duroxide-pg = "0.1"
```

## Usage

```rust
use duroxide_pg::PostgresProvider;
use duroxide::Worker;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    // Create a provider with the database URL
    let provider = PostgresProvider::new("postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydb").await?;

    // Use with a Duroxide worker
    let worker = Worker::new(provider);
    // ... register orchestrations and activities, then run
    
    Ok(())
}
```

### Custom Schema

To isolate data in a specific PostgreSQL schema:

```rust
let provider = PostgresProvider::new_with_schema(
    "postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydb",
    Some("my_schema"),
).await?;
```

## Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description | Default |
|---------------------|-------------|---------|
| `DUROXIDE_PG_POOL_MAX` | Maximum connection pool size | `10` |

## Features

- Automatic schema migration on startup
- Connection pooling via sqlx
- Custom schema support for multi-tenant isolation
- Full implementation of the Duroxide `Provider` and `ProviderAdmin` traits

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

feat: update to duroxide 0.1.3 with poison message handling
Breaking changes:
- fetch_orchestration_item now returns (OrchestrationItem, String, u32) tuple
- fetch_work_item now returns (WorkItem, String, u32) tuple
- abandon_orchestration_item now requires ignore_attempt: bool parameter
- OrchestrationItem no longer contains lock_token field

New features:
- Added abandon_work_item() method for explicit work item lock release
- Added renew_orchestration_item_lock() method for long-running turns
- Added attempt_count tracking for poison message detection
- New migration 0003_add_attempt_count.sql

Fixes:
- abandon_work_item with delay now keeps lock_token to prevent immediate refetch
- abandon_orchestration_item without delay no longer updates visible_at

Tests:
- 61 provider validation tests passing (up from 50)
- Added 11 new tests for poison message handling

README.md, after:

# Duroxide PostgreSQL Provider

A PostgreSQL-based provider implementation for [Duroxide](https://github.com/affandar/duroxide), a durable task orchestration framework for Rust.

> **Note:** See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for version history and breaking changes.

## Installation

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
duroxide-pg = "0.1"
```

## Usage

```rust
use duroxide_pg::PostgresProvider;
use duroxide::Worker;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    // Create a provider with the database URL
    let provider = PostgresProvider::new("postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydb").await?;

    // Use with a Duroxide worker
    let worker = Worker::new(provider);
    // ... register orchestrations and activities, then run
    
    Ok(())
}
```

### Custom Schema

To isolate data in a specific PostgreSQL schema:

```rust
let provider = PostgresProvider::new_with_schema(
    "postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/mydb",
    Some("my_schema"),
).await?;
```

## Configuration

| Environment Variable | Description | Default |
|---------------------|-------------|---------|
| `DUROXIDE_PG_POOL_MAX` | Maximum connection pool size | `10` |

## Features

- Automatic schema migration on startup
- Connection pooling via sqlx
- Custom schema support for multi-tenant isolation
- Full implementation of the Duroxide `Provider` and `ProviderAdmin` traits
- Poison message detection with attempt count tracking
- Lock renewal for long-running orchestrations and activities

## Latest Release (0.1.4)

- Updated to duroxide 0.1.3 with poison message handling
- Added `abandon_work_item()` and `renew_orchestration_item_lock()` methods
- 61 provider validation tests passing
- See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for full version history

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
